NMS-13972: Document housekeeping tasks before upgrade (#4477)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/admin/housekeeping/introduction.adoc

[[housekeeping]]
= Housekeeping Tasks

There are a number of housekeeping tasks you may want to do regularly to ensure optimum system performance.
We also recommend you complete some of these housekeeping tasks before upgrading {page-component-title}.

> [[prune-events]]
> == Prune unneeded events
> Use vacuumd or cron to regularly prune unneeded events.
> This helps to clean up your events table, and reduces the amount of data in your backups.
> We also recommend doing this before you begin the {page-component-title} upgrade process.
> 
> For example, run the following to delete events older than six weeks that have no associated outages:
> 
> [source, sql]
> ----
> --# this deletes any events that are not associated with outages
> DELETE FROM events WHERE NOT EXISTS
> (SELECT svclosteventid FROM outages WHERE svclosteventid = events.eventid
> UNION
> SELECT svcregainedeventid FROM outages WHERE svcregainedeventid = events.eventid
> UNION
> SELECT eventid FROM notifications WHERE eventid
> ----
> 
> [[delete-cache-folder]]
> == Delete cache folder
> Run the Fix Karaf script to delete cached items so that your system is cleaned up.
> We recommend doing this after an upgrade.
> This script tries to fix Karaf configuration problems by pruning `opt/opennms/data` and restoring all Karaf-related configuration files to a pristine state.
> 
> NOTE: Back up `/opt/opennms/etc` before running the script.
> 
> [source, shell]
> ----
> /opt/opennms/bin/fix-karaf-setup.sh
> ----
> 

Reviewer: Maybe group these based on when to run the tasks?
```suggestion
== Prior to upgrading

[[prune-events]]
=== Prune unneeded events
Use vacuumd or cron to regularly prune unneeded events.
This helps to clean up your events table, and reduces the amount of data in your backups.
We also recommend doing this before you begin the {page-component-title} upgrade process.

For example, run the following to delete events older than six weeks that have no associated outages:

[source, sql]
----
--# this deletes any events that are not associated with outages
DELETE FROM events WHERE NOT EXISTS
(SELECT svclosteventid FROM outages WHERE svclosteventid = events.eventid
UNION
SELECT svcregainedeventid FROM outages WHERE svcregainedeventid = events.eventid
UNION
SELECT eventid FROM notifications WHERE eventid
----

== After Upgrading

[[delete-cache-folder]]
=== Delete cache folder
Run the Fix Karaf script to delete cached items so that your system is cleaned up.
We recommend doing this after an upgrade.
This script tries to fix Karaf configuration problems by pruning `opt/opennms/data` and restoring all Karaf-related configuration files to a pristine state.

NOTE: Back up `/opt/opennms/etc` before running the script.

[source, console]
----
/opt/opennms/bin/fix-karaf-setup.sh
----

```

[[housekeeping]]
= Housekeeping Tasks

There are a number of housekeeping tasks you may want to do regularly to ensure optimum system performance.
We also recommend you complete some of these housekeeping tasks before upgrading {page-component-title}.

[[prune-events]]
== Prune unneeded events
Use vacuumd or cron to regularly prune unneeded events.
This helps to clean up your events table, and reduces the amount of data in your backups.
We also recommend doing this before you begin the {page-component-title} upgrade process.

For example, run the following to delete events older than six weeks that have no associated outages:

##do we have a better example?##

> [source, console]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, sql]
```

[[housekeeping]]
= Housekeeping Tasks

There are a number of housekeeping tasks you may want to do regularly to ensure optimum system performance.
We also recommend you complete some of these housekeeping tasks before upgrading {page-component-title}.

== Prior to upgrading

[[prune-events]]
=== Prune unneeded events
Use vacuumd or cron to regularly prune unneeded events.
This helps to clean up your events table, and reduces the amount of data in your backups.
We also recommend doing this before you begin the {page-component-title} upgrade process.

For example, run the following to delete events older than six weeks that have no associated outages:

[source, sql]
----
--# this deletes any events that are not associated with outages
DELETE FROM events WHERE NOT EXISTS
(SELECT svclosteventid FROM outages WHERE svclosteventid = events.eventid
UNION
SELECT svcregainedeventid FROM outages WHERE svcregainedeventid = events.eventid
UNION

> SELECT eventid FROM notifications WHERE eventid

Reviewer: need to update SQL example.  This note above mentions 6 weeks, but the sample below doesn't filter by date.  Looks like this line is incomplete.

Author: Yup. Missing line.

Reviewer: something still looks off.  There is a `(` but no closing parenthesis.

Author: Gee, if only there were something like cut and paste and I knew how to use it properly! I think everything is there now.
